No element creation in plan view is working - not working - preview works - wall creation not - find the root cause/
Check the live logs - Wall creation/ curtain / door, etc.. preview is working - but the elements dont get created - neither on the scene not in the store. 
This bug has been introduce during the last refactor task from PRYZM3-MASTER-STATUS.md -contrual documentation (00_Contracts) and architectural documentation - should reflect in great level of detail this process from a architectural robushness point of view - this is not admissible. Make sure this is in place.None of those issues should be solved in isolotation - we need to understand the big picture - why they occurred if they are impacting other system and which ones - knokon effects and which was the architectural failure and solve it in an architecturally sound way.



Please review again and make sure this is correctly reviewed - analysed and amended and fixed - architectrually sound:Door and windows behavior - Before PRYZM3 when the legacy code was in place - the doors and windows will move alongside the wall that they are hosted on and the openings will follow along - of couse - at the moment the opening dont follow alogn - they are static in the original place. This should be review for all hosted elements - contrual documentation (00_Contracts) and architectural documentation - should reflect in great level of detail this process from a architectural robushness point of view - this is not admissible. Make sure this is in place. None of those issues should be solved in isolotation - we need to understand the big picture - why they occurred if they are impacting other system and which ones - knokon effects and which was the architectural failure and solve it in an architecturally sound way.

Please review again and make sure this is correctly reviewed - analysed and amended and fixed - architectrually sound:Window should follow the same structure than door - and it was like this recently - windows should move only alongside the wall that host them - Now i select a windwos and allow me to move it in on any direction... this is not correct - again this should be reflected on the contrual documentation (00_Contracts) and architectural documentation - should reflect in great level of detail this process from a architectural robushness point of view - this is not admissible. Make sure this is in place.None of those issues should be solved in isolotation - we need to understand the big picture - why they occurred if they are impacting other system and which ones - knokon effects and which was the architectural failure and solve it in an architecturally sound way.


Please review again and make sure this is correctly reviewed - analysed and amended and fixed - architectrually sound:Since the refactor performend during: PRYZM3-MASTER-STATUS.md - the properties panel - check live logs -doenst work - if I change the element property doesn't reflect on the scene neither on the store- please review carefully in great level of detailed - make sure this in contractually reflected - plan - analyse and fix - no short cuts - architecturally sound. 

Please review again and make sure this is correctly reviewed - analysed and amended and fixed - architectrually sound:An element gets move - specifically a wall - and the wall first still have hte original highlight in the original position and when another element is created - it goes back to the original position

Please review again and make sure this is correctly reviewed - analysed and amended and fixed - architectrually sound:On stair creation - It asks to add a level - but the level doesn't get added on demanded - and approval - check - review and make sure it works -this is not correct - again this should be reflected on the contrual documentation (00_Contracts) and architectural documentation - should reflect in great level of detail this process from a architectural robushness point of view - this is not admissible. Make sure this is in place.None of those issues should be solved in isolotation - we need to understand the big picture - why they occurred if they are impacting other system and which ones - knokon effects and which was the architectural failure and solve it in an architecturally sound way.
