Check again please - did you solve all the issues? It is really long processing? was your implementation architecturally sound? and algiend with all documents? check console again this is from before your last fixes - second just from now - still now working - the loading is static - frozen - the process takes tooo long toooo long - check gain

4 minutes ago

Analyzing room detection performance issues (14 seconds)
The user is saying the loading is still taking too long and is frozen/static. Let me read the full attached console log to understand what's happening. Let me also get the current browser logs.

From the attached file, I can see the issue. Looking at the first attached file, I can see:

[BatchCoordinator] _setupBatch — 10 level(s), 10 elements expected. - This is the slab batch

Then immediately: [StoreEventBus] beginBatch()

Then slabs are created synchronously

Then [CreateSlabsOnAllFloorsCommand] COMPLETE created=10 total=7.3ms

Now I need to see what happens after the batch completes — whether the batch processing kicks off or if something else is blocking the flow.

Looking at the performance data, there's an 8-second LONGTASK around timestamp 129707ms that fires right after the REDETECT_ROOMS command for 11 levels. This could be the culprit — either the room detection itself or the shadow flag operations on 156 meshes are causing the freeze. Let me pull the full console logs to trace the exact sequence and identify where the bottleneck is.

Let me read the full attached console log and current browser logs in parallel to get the complete picture:


Show less

Opened attached_assets/Pasted--SlabFragmentBuilder-outset-slabId-6e6c40de-3888-4076-b_1777901809909.txt
Checked console logs

Analyzing large event batch delivery
Let me read the rest of the attached file to understand the full picture of what's happening. Line 378 shows [StoreEventBus] endBatchYielded() — 10835 event(s) will be delivered in 55 chunk(s) of 200 via frame scheduler. - this is HUGE. 10,835 events! Let me read more.

Let me read the rest of that critical section and the full console file:


Show less

Opened attached_assets/Pasted--SlabFragmentBuilder-outset-slabId-6e6c40de-3888-4076-b_1777901809909.txt

Opened attached_assets/Pasted-injected-js-37-initScene-RenderPerformanceService-ready_1777902501176.txt

Planning command execution chunking (160 seconds)
Now I can see the full picture. Let me analyze the critical LONGTASKs from the attached file:

From the first attached file (pre-fix, old data):

Line 450: [LONGTASK] duration=16667.0ms at start=485198.7ms

Line 452: [LONGTASK] duration=54140.0ms at start=501866.7ms — 54 SECONDS!

Line 456: [ViewDependencyTracker] flush — 2 dirty view(s): vd-sys-3, vd-sys-p — 3D view is STILL being flushed!

Line 434 shows the BatchCoordinator firing 11 REDETECT_ROOMS commands, followed by shadow flag updates across 310 meshes and a geometry pass affecting 592 meshes in the scene

This was all before my fix, so I need to check the new logs to see if these performance bottlenecks have been resolved. Ah, so the second file is actually the new session with my fixes applied — I can see the ViewDependencyTracker suppression at line 431. But the user is still reporting frozen loading, so I need to trace what happens after the curtain walls creation in that new session to figure out where the bottleneck actually is now. Looking at the first file more carefully, I can see the massive 54-second LONGTASK happens after the room redetection commands fire, shadow flags get applied to the meshes, and then the post-batch geometry pass runs to upgrade the PBR materials across all those objects.

The real culprit is likely the PBR material upgrade triggering shader compilation for each of those 592 meshes — that's what's causing the catastrophic UI freeze. The socket disconnected due to a ping timeout, and I'm seeing the GPU state with 224 geometries and 9 textures. Then there's a massive spike in long tasks — a 16-second task, followed by an enormous 54-second task that's clearly causing the performance collapse, with the frame rate dropping to 1fps. After that, the view dependency tracker is flushing dirty views, and the native element mesh exporter is processing 218 elements across 11 levels before the edge projector service completes its native projection work.

Looking at the timing breakdown, the LONGTASK avalanche is coming from two sources: about 4.3 seconds from the REDETECT_ROOMS pass with shadow flags and PBR upgrades, then roughly 70 seconds from the curtain wall geometry builds running in the background. The 224 geometries appearing after the first 4-second task suggests the curtain wall builder is still draining the frame budget — with 165 curtain walls and only 5 builds per frame, that's going to take around 33 frames just to process them all.

The real bottleneck is that creating the curtain walls themselves takes 4 seconds (looking at the per-slab timings, they range from 45ms to 355ms each), and then the geometry builder has to process all 165 walls afterward. The endBatchYielded call with over 10,000 events is chunking across 55 frames, which is adding even more overhead.

But the 54-second LONGTASK is the real mystery—that's way too long to be just 165 curtain wall geometry builds, even if each one takes 50ms. Looking at the GPU state after the first 4-second LONGTASK, I'm seeing 224 geometries and 192 draw calls, which suggests something much heavier is happening during those subsequent LONGTASK periods.

The logs show that after the 54-second LONGTASK, the view dependency tracker is flushing 2 dirty views and the native element mesh exporter is processing 218 elements across 11 levels, generating 16,691 edge geometries for projection. This is the old behavior before my fix—the 3D view is doing a massive projection pass with all those edge geometries, which could easily explain the 54-second stall.

Looking at the new session with my fix applied, the BatchCoordinator message confirms the suppression is active, but the user is reporting the session is still frozen. So there's a second bottleneck: the CREATE_CURTAIN_WALLS_ON_ALL_SLABS command itself is taking 4 seconds to complete—it's creating 165 curtain walls (15 walls across 11 slabs) entirely synchronously on the main thread, which is blocking everything else.

Beyond that, there are two more performance drains: the post-batch PBR upgrade on 592 meshes is triggering multi-second LONGTASKs, and the curtain wall geometry construction in the RAF drain is still causing the massive 16-54 second hangs from the earlier logs. Looking back at the old log, after the batch geometry pass completes, I see a 4-second LONGTASK followed by another 217ms one, with FPS dropping to 1fps and 224 geometries being processed—which suggests the curtain wall geometry is still the culprit.

The 16 and 54 second LONGTASKs that follow are likely caused by WebGPU shader compilation happening synchronously on the main thread when the new PBR materials render for the first time, combined with the curtain wall builder still draining resources. With 165 curtain walls each generating 5-10 Three.js objects (frames, panels, mullions), that's potentially 800+ objects triggering shader compilation all at once, which would absolutely explain the multi-second blocking.

The _onPostBatchGeometry method in BatchCoordinator is probably setting material.needsUpdate = true for each material, forcing shader recompilation. I need to understand what the "PBR upgrade" step actually does and whether it's the culprit here, especially compared to the test run with 3,960 events in 20 chunks.

Looking at the remaining bottlenecks: the synchronous CREATE_CURTAIN_WALLS_ON_ALL_SLABS command is blocking for 4 seconds creating 165 walls, the P1.3 PBR upgrade triggers shader recompilation across 592 meshes, the CurtainWall builder RAF drains are still generating heavy geometry in chunks, and REDETECT_ROOMS runs synchronously for 11 levels. The user's complaint about the loading indicator being frozen points directly to these synchronous operations blocking the main thread. Looking at the event log, the batch delivery completed with 3960 events across 20 chunks, then the suppression was lifted and 11 room redetection commands fired. Shadow flags got applied to 156 meshes, and the geometry pass ran on 344 meshes, but we're only hitting 30fps. There's a 225ms LONGTASK right after the batch completes — that's likely where the UI is actually freezing.

But the real problem is the 8348ms LONGTASK that fires next. That's the room redetection, lighting updates, and geometry pass all running synchronously in one block. Even after my optimization, that's still massive. The EdgeProjector service is now much faster at just 75ms with only 561 geometries, so the bottleneck is definitely in that synchronous REDETECT_ROOMS and PascalSceneLighting phase.

When I look at the full 10835-event curtain wall batch from the old logs, the LONGTASKs are absolutely brutal — 4 seconds, then 16 seconds, then 54 seconds. Those are the curtain wall geometry builders running synchronously, and with 165 walls each building their meshes, it compounds quickly. The 224 geometries that appear afterward are the rendered curtain wall geometry, but by that point the frame rate has already tanked to 1fps from the blocking work.

Then after the geometries render, two massive LONGTASKs hit — 16667ms and 54140ms — which adds up to about 70 seconds of frozen UI. This is almost certainly WebGPU pipeline compilation kicking in when all those new PBR materials on the curtain walls render for the first time. The browser has to compile the render pipelines for 165+ walls with multiple mesh instances, and that compilation blocks the main thread hard.

The real solution would be shader pre-warming — compiling those pipelines before the batch finishes so the LONGTASKs don't freeze the UI. But that's complex to implement. There might be something in the post-batch geometry callback that could help here. backed up with too many new materials being submitted at once. The real issue is that CREATE_CURTAIN_WALLS_ON_ALL_SLABS blocks the main thread for 4 seconds doing polygon computation, then REDETECT_ROOMS and the PBR upgrade pile on another few seconds, and finally the CurtainWall builder's RAF drain triggers WebGPU shader compilation which causes massive frame blocking. The user's frozen loading indicator is happening because the main thread is completely blocked during all these operations.

Looking at the animation system more carefully, the loading indicator relies on getFrameScheduler().addTickListener() to animate the pyramid and progress bar, but when the main thread is locked up for 4+ seconds, no rAF fires at all, so nothing can animate. The static, frozen appearance is actually expected behavior when you have these massive synchronous LONGTASKs blocking everything.

So I'm looking at multiple problems that need fixing: the CREATE_CURTAIN_WALLS_ON_ALL_SLABS command is creating 165 curtain walls synchronously, which is the primary culprit for that 4-second block. Then there's the PBR upgrade running on 592 meshes right after the batch completes, also synchronously. The WebGPU shader compilation triggered by the geometry builds is harder to control since it's browser-level, though pre-warming can help. And REDETECT_ROOMS is running synchronously across 11 levels.

But looking at the second log file, I can see my fix is actually active — the BatchCoordinator is set up correctly with 10 levels and 10 elements expected, ViewDependencyTracker is suppressed. Yet the user is still reporting it's frozen, so something else is going on.

The real question is whether the freeze is happening before or after my changes take effect. Looking at the sequence in the log, I see CREATE_SLABS_ON_ALL_FLOORS starting, then the batch setup at line 431, the command completing in 10.2ms, and the SlabFragmentBuilder draining quickly. But then the file cuts off right before CREATE_CURTAIN_WALLS_ON_ALL_SLABS would start — so the user's complaint is probably about the entire sequence including that curtain wall batch, not just the slab part.

The remaining LONGTASKs are the CREATE_CURTAIN_WALLS_ON_ALL_SLABS command itself taking 4060ms to create 165 walls synchronously, followed by the REDETECT_ROOMS and PBR upgrade phase, plus potential WebGPU compilation overhead from the curtain wall geometry builds. Since each wall involves polygon intersection and edge detection, the cumulative time per slab is adding up — I'm seeing 45ms just for the first slab.

The real issue is that the command execution itself is blocking for 4 seconds while creating store entries, not just the geometry building phase. The BatchCoordinator handles the geometry drain across frames, but the command that populates the store is still running synchronously. I need to chunk the command execution across frames too, not just defer the geometry building.

But there's a constraint here — commands need to be atomic for undo/redo to work properly. Looking at the actual timing logs, each slab's wall creation is taking progressively longer, with some slabs hitting 700ms or more.

The cumulative times suggest each slab is taking 40-700ms individually, and I'm wondering if there's an O(n²) performance issue happening — maybe later slabs are slower because they're intersecting with an increasingly large set of existing curtain walls from previous slabs. : 519ms

slab 9: 518ms
slab 10: 649ms
slab 11: 704ms
The pattern's clear now — performance degrades significantly with each slab, which points to O(n²) complexity. Each new wall creation is likely checking against all previously created walls for intersections, making the operation increasingly expensive as the total count grows.

The real bottleneck is in CreateCurtainWallsOnAllSlabsCommand itself. I'm weighing a few approaches: breaking the command into per-slab phases with yields between them would help responsiveness but sacrifice atomicity, or I could tackle the O(n²) behavior directly by optimizing how wall intersections are checked — maybe precomputing or batching those checks instead of doing them individually for each wall.

Looking at the BatchCoordinator P1.3 code, I'm wondering if deferring the PBR upgrade across multiple frames instead of processing all 592 meshes at once would help. The post-batch geometry pass is running synchronously and might be contributing to the LONGTASK. I'm also noticing that PascalSceneLighting is setting shadow flags on 310 meshes — that could be another synchronous operation worth chunking.

The larger LONGTASKs happening after geometry appears are likely WebGPU pipeline compilation or the CurtainWall builder draining remaining geometry, which are harder to control. But I can definitely chunk the P1.3 post-batch pass into slices of 20-30 meshes per frame using FrameScheduler, and spread out the 11 REDETECT_ROOMS commands instead of firing them all at once.

Looking at the second file the user attached—which shows the new session with my fixes—I can see the slab batch completes around line 453 and the slab geometry builds, but the file cuts off during the slab builder drain before the curtain wall command even runs. So I need to check if the freeze is still happening in this new session or if it's shifted to a different point.

The old log showed the real bottleneck: after the curtain wall command starts, there's 4060ms of synchronous execution, then 4082ms for room redetection and PBR upgrade, then 70 seconds of WebGPU shader compilation and curtain wall geometry draining. My PERF-VIEW-BATCH-SUPPRESS fix only eliminated the EdgeProjectorService 3D view LONGTASK (which was 12,635ms), but it never touched the WebGPU compilation or the synchronous command execution itself. So I've solved one problem but left the other massive bottlenecks untouched. I need to tackle the chunking and async handling of the remaining operations.

Looking at the sequence more carefully: the batch completes, then REDETECT_ROOMS and P1.3 fire off together creating that 4082ms LONGTASK, followed by geometry appearing in the GPU monitor, then a 16667ms LONGTASK. I should examine what's happening in the final sweep and P1.3 callback, especially how the PBR upgrade processes 592 meshes synchronously, and what the shadow flag updates are doing with 310 meshes. The real question is what's triggering those 16667ms and 54140ms LONGTASKs after the initial batch completes. So the 16667ms and 54140ms LONGTASKs are both happening before the EdgeProjectorService kicks in — they're tied to the CW builder drain cycle, where the 4082ms LONGTASK includes 11 REDETECT_ROOMS operations plus the P1.3 upgrade, and then geometry starts getting built. I'm trying to trace what triggers these massive tasks by looking at what happens right before the 16667ms one starts.

The CW builder is processing 165 curtain walls at 5 per frame, which should be 33 frames at 16ms each, but the actual timing is much longer because each geometry build is heavy. The real culprit is that each curtain wall mesh gets new PBR materials, and WebGPU is compiling render pipelines synchronously on first render — with 165+ walls and multiple mesh types, that's causing the catastrophic 70-second delay. The solution is to defer the pipeline compilation instead of blocking on it.

Looking at the P1.3 pass that upgrades 592 meshes with shadow flags and PBR settings, that's triggering shader recompilation for everything at once. I need to split the PBR upgrade into smaller chunks across multiple frames while keeping the shadow flag updates synchronous, since those don't trigger compilation.

I should also track down the CreateCurtainWallsOnAllSlabsCommand code — that 4060ms synchronous block is the main bottleneck and needs to be broken up with yields to let the browser breathe.

Now I see the full picture. The attached log reveals two massive separate LONGTASKs my fix did NOT address — a 16,667ms + 54,140ms block (70+ seconds total). Let me pinpoint every remaining bottleneck: